Devrel 1134 review and update environment types (#1913)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: docs/src/administration/users.md

## Environment types

Each environment type groups one or more environments together so that you can manage access for all environments of a certain type.
Platform.sh offers three types of environment groups: Production, Staging, and Development.
You can assign user permissions for each environment type.
Any permissions you assign to an environment type apply to all environments of that type.

For example, if you assign user1 **Admin** permissions for Development environments, User1 effectively has **Admin** permissions to all development environments.

A few things to consider:

* Only one environment per project can be the Production type. It's set automatically as the default branch and can't be overridden separately.
* You can change an environment type and have multiple Staging or Development environments.
* To customize who can use SSH, [set the access key](/configuration/app/access.html) in your platform.app.yaml

| Environment permission   | Description |
|------------------------- |-------------|
|Viewer                    | Viewers can view all environments of this type.|

> |Contributor               | Contributors can push code and branch all environments of this type. This role includes the Viewer permissions.

Reviewer: The information about default SSH access has disappeared. I think it should be in this row.

|Admin                     | Admins can change settings and execute actions on all environments of this type. This role includes the Viewer and Contributor permissions.

## Manage users

### Add a user to a project

To add a user to a project, follow these steps:

{{< codetabs >}}
---

> title="In the console"

Reviewer: I'm sorry if my simplified example was misleading. It was intended to show the structure of the page, not the codetabs themselves. They currently require [more settings(https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs/blob/master/contributing/markup-format.md#code-tabs) (`highlight=false` and `file=none`). I could change it to set those as the default, but that's why the deploy is currently failing.

This applies to all codetabs in here.

---

> 1. Go to your console and select the project where you want to add a new user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the console, select the project where you want to add a new user.
```
I think this 1. simplifies it, 2. doesn't make it seem like 2 steps in one, and 3. doesn't imply that the console is really the user's.

> 2. Under **Settings**, click **Access**.

Reviewer: The changing in numbering is somewhat confusing. I'd stick with `1.` at the start each time so you don't have to worry about it. But at least not starting to count up and then not.

1. Click **+ Add**
1. Add the user's details and choose their permissions.
4. Click **Save**.

> 5. After you add a user from a project or an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy to propagate SSH access changes to each environment. You can redeploy by clicking **Redeploy** in the console.

Reviewer: Given that the explanation is the same for both console and CLI, I'd consider putting it after the outcome and then just having something like: by either clicking **Redeploy in the console or running `platform redeploy`

That would help avoid problems like not having this idea in the CLI currently.

```suggestion
After you add a user to a project, you have to redeploy each environment for the SSH access changes to apply there.
```

---
title="Using the CLI"
---
You can use the [Platform.sh CLI (Command Line Interface)](/development/cli/_index.md) to create new users.

* `platform user:add`

Say you want to add `user1@example.com` to the project with **Project Admin** permissions:

```bash
platform user:add user1@example.com -r admin
```

> Once you add the user to the project, they receive an invitation email to join the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
The expected outcome sits outside the tabs (it's the same for both tabs).

> Use `platform list` to get the full list of commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This isn't unique to this situation and doesn't seem very relevant.

{{< /codetabs >}}

> Once you add a user to a project, they receive an invitation to join the project.

Reviewer: I think it's worth noting that new users get an invitation to create an account. But maybe it's clear enough in the emails themselves? :shrug:

## Manage existing users

### Delete a user from a project

To delete a user from a project, follow these steps:

{{< codetabs >}}
---
title="In the console"
---

> 1. Go to your console and select the project where you want to delete a user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the console, select the project where you want to delete a user.
```

2. Under **Settings**, click **Access**.

> 3. Select the user you want to delete and click **Delete**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the user you want to delete and click **Delete**.
```

4. Click **Save**.

> 5. After you delete a user from a project or an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy to propagate SSH access changes to each environment. You can redeploy by clicking **Redeploy** in the console.

Reviewer: As above.

---
title="Using the CLI"
---
Use the [Platform.sh CLI (Command Line Interface)](/development/cli/_index.md) to delete existing users.

> * `platform user:delete`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`platform user:delete`
```
I don't see a reason for this to be a bulleted list (there aren't other items in it. It might also help to have an introductory phrase.

  ```bash
  platform user:delete user1@example.com
  ```

>   Use `platform list` to get the full list of commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Again, it doesn't seem very relevant.

  After you delete a user from a project or an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy to propagate SSH access changes to each environment. You can redeploy by using the CLI command platform `redeploy`.

{{< /codetabs >}}

> Once you delete a user, they won't be able to access the project anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you delete a user, they can no longer access the project.
```

To match the style guide suggestion.

### Change user permissions from the console

> To change the user permissions, follow the steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change user permissions, follow these steps:
```

{{< codetabs >}}
---
title="In the console"
---
1. Go to your console and select the project where you want to change the user permissions.
2. Under **Settings**, click **Access**.
3. Select a user and change the permissions.
4. Click **Save**.

> 5. After you delete a user from a project or an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy to propagate SSH access changes to each environment. You can redeploy by clicking **Redeploy** in the console.

Reviewer: As the console notes, this isn't actually a necessary step:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26428882/136815656-da7b8525-b778-4fa5-81a4-e45b2b1a4a3f.png)
It seems it's done automatically.

It should probably be remove, but at least changed to not being about deleting users.

---
title="Using the CLI"
---
Use the [Platform.sh CLI (Command Line Interface)](/development/cli/_index.md)to change user permissions.

> * `platform user:role`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`platform user:role`
```

  ```bash
  platform user:role user1@example.com -r contributor
  ```

> Use `platform list` to get the full list of commands.

Reviewer: As above, I think this is unnecessary.

> After you delete a user from a project or an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy to propagate SSH access changes to each environment. You can redeploy by using the CLI command platform `redeploy`.

Reviewer: I would check if this is also done automatically. At least change it from being about deleting users.

{{< /codetabs >}}

> ### Transfer a project ownership

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Transfer project ownership
```

> You can transfer your plan ownership to a different [organization](https://docs.platform.sh/administration/organizations.html) anytime.

Reviewer: The link isn't in the right format.

> #### Before you begin

Reviewer: As we noted in chat, I don't think this heading is useful here.

> You have to be the organization owner or an organization user with the **manage plans** permission.

Reviewer: As I noted above, I'm not sure if the permission is correct but it should at least link to a definition of that permission.

Reviewer: As above, it should have both permissions and with links (they might not read above, only here).

1. Invite the new organization owner as a **Project Admin**.
2. Submit a [support ticket](https://console.platform.sh/-/users/~/tickets) from your organization owner's account to ask for the transfer.

Once the transfer is completed, the new organization can administer all project settings, billing, and gets the subscription charges.

> ##Troubleshooting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshooting
```

> [Source Integrations](integrations/source/troubleshooting.html)

Reviewer: This link has no context that would make it useful. I'd put in something like "If you have X problem, see Y" or whatever. Also, the link format isn't right.

---
title: "User administration"
weight: 1

> sidebarTitle: "User administration"

Author: I know it's longer but I thought it would the expectations better for someone who is scanning the page or the search results.

> sidebarTitle: "User administration"

Reviewer: The sidebar title doesn't appear in search results. Only in the sidebar navigation, which is limited in space.

description: |

>   Every Platform.sh user has a set of permissions. Depending on your role, you'll be able to access different levels of the application, environments and projects. If you want to add a user to a project or an environment type, the user has to create an account before they can contribute to the project.

Reviewer: This topic is about administering users. Given that, the reader is not going to have different levels of access. They will have to be an admin or owner. So the bit about "depending on your role" seems confusing to me. 

I'd also recommend shortening this as it's rather long for a `description`. Some of the detail doesn't need to be here, but can be below. If you like, you can separate the description from the intro text.

I think the bit about accessing different levels of the application is somewhat confusing. At least it should have a serial comma. :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: Ok

  Every Platform.sh user has a role that controls their access and permission levels. Different roles allow different levels of access to your applications, environments and projects. You can manage how users interact with your project and environments at Platform.sh
  Every Platform.sh user has a set of permissions. Depending on your role, you'll be able to access different levels of the application, environments and projects. If you want to add a user to a project or an environment type, the user has to create an account before they can contribute to the project.
---

{{< description >}}

Any user added to a project or an environment type on Platform.sh will need to [register for an account](https://auth.api.platform.sh/register) before they can contribute. If you need to delete your account at any time you can [transfer ownership](/administration/users.md#transfer-ownership) of your existing projects and then open a [support ticket](/development/troubleshoot.md#deleting-your-platformsh-account) to request your account deletion.  
### User roles

> ## User roles

Reviewer: Why this change? It's the first heading, so it should be an h2. If there's no h2 and it skips right to h3, the document isn't semantically valid.

> | Project owner                   | The organization where the project was created in the first place. There is only one and can create multiple project administrators. If you’re the owner of a project, and want to transfer it to a different user, first invite that user as a project administrator and then, submit a support ticket from your owner account to ask for the transfer. Transferring a project automatically transfers the upcoming subscription charges to the new owner. Once you transfer ownership, open a [support ticket](https://docs.platform.sh/development/troubleshoot.html) to request your account deletion. Note that transferring a project automatically transfers the upcoming subscription charges to the new owner. |

Reviewer: I like the idea of making this a table. It has the potential to make this much more scanable. :+1: 

It's just that this is really long for tabular data. I don't think this works well as a table. I would include just a description here and separate out ideas about how to transfer ownership. That seems like a separate task and not a description of what an owner is.

Also, the owner isn't an organization, as is implied in the first sentence. There are places where that seems to be the case due to the way it was migrated, but the owner isn't the same thing as the organization.

Author: Thanks for the feedback.  We could definitely add a set of standardised words to our SG such as Project Admin or Admin or at least discuss which one to use. I am still not familiar with the Platform terminology so I always struggle picking the right one. I don't particularly like any existing option so I try to go to what I feel is the most logical choice. I wonder whether we can affect the product terminology decisions made by Maria by recommending things such as "Use Administrator o Project Administrator instead of Admin on the interface". It's probably an interesting discussion.

Reviewer 2: We do use "Project Admin" in the user interface when inviting someone as such, so I'm not sure which scenario you're both describing. 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3729517/135818197-925c8b2a-fdb4-4c1e-8c1f-ba978c4879af.png)

Reviewer: I meant in the overview of users in a given project.
![picture of users in Platform.sh UI with some Admins in project](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26428882/135818794-5bd812fd-b717-4b6f-afe2-9ad7d8140296.png)
It's just about consistency, at least within a single doc (everywhere in the UI and docs would be great, but not something that's done immediately).

Author: I have create a ticket from this comment so we can follow up the discussion separately. 
https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs/issues/1918

Reviewer: The other issue seems good for long-term planning. It would still be nice to have this doc consistent until that's settled. :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: So, I've settled for "Project admin" just to replicate the checkbox name.

> |Project Admin | Users who can configure project settings, administer environment permissions, push code, and execute actions on all project environments.|                                                                                                                                                                                      

Reviewer: Given the scope of the article, I'd mention whether they can administer other users.

> ### Permissions per environment type

Reviewer: I think this should also be an h2. Or, given the below, maybe rephrased to be about either environment types foremost or about roles.

> Environment types offer a way to group environments (production, staging, and development) together. If you group your environments, you can grant user permissions per environment type at the project level.

Reviewer: Given the scope of the ticket (user confusion about types), I'd like to see the description of environment types somewhat expanded on. Just another sentence or two maybe. 

I also personally find the conjunction of "per environment type" with "at the project level" a little confusing. They seem to be pulling in different directions.

A few things to consider:

> * Environments can share the same type.

Reviewer: Does this mean there can be more than one environment in a type? Isn't that implied by the idea of "grouping" them? Or is there something more here that I'm missing? Wouldn't be the first time :grin:

Author: What I understand by this is that you can have multiple staging or developement environments so a type is "staging type"or "developement type"

Reviewer: There can be multiple environments that are of the same type. My question was about what the phrasing here was supposed to add. I feel like "share" with "type" feels slightly confusing, or at least it's not what I'm used to reading with types. It seems to be included in the idea of types being a group.

> * Environments can change their type from Staging to Development and the other way around.

Reviewer: It'd be nice to be consistent with capitalization (above you changed them to lowercase).

> * After you add or remove a user from a project or an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy to propagate SSH access changes to each environment. You can redeploy by using the CLI command platform redeploy or the Redeploy button in the management console.

Reviewer: The last sentence should be formatted to show what's a command and what's a button (though ideally without using the word "button").

| Role                     | Description |

> |------------------------- |-------------|

Reviewer: It seems confusing to have this table here when it seems like it's about roles. If you want to keep it here, I'd introduce it some way to make it clear what information is being presented. Because it's not immediately clear how roles and permissions per environment type relate (just adding consistency to the terms might help).

Author: I've renamed the table title from Roles to Environment permission. That might help understanding the relationship.

|Viewer                    | Viewers can view all environments of this type.|

> |Contributor               | This role includes the viewer permissions. Contributors can push code and branch all environments of this type. By default, everyone with access equal or greater than Contributor can access the environment through SSH. To customize who can use SSH, [set the access key](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/app/access.html) in your platform.app.yaml |

Reviewer: For consistency, I'd consider putting the first sentence for this (and for admins) at the end. Or change the first table. Just so they start similarly. Also decide whether the role is always capitalized. If so, it should be in what's now the first sentence, too.

Given that the first sentence of the next one is that admins have contributor permissions, I think saying "access equal or greater than Contributor" isn't necessary.

Also, the last bit should be in code markers and be marked as a file.

> |Admin                     | This role includes viewer and contributor permissions. Administrators can change settings and execute actions on all environments of this type. By default, everyone with access equal or greater than Contributor can access the environment through SSH. To customize who can use SSH [set the access key](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/app/access.html) in your platform.app.yaml|

Reviewer: Given the first sentence here, I don't think the bit about SSH is necessary. Or should be reformulated.

> {{< note theme="warning" title="Warning" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note theme="warning" >}}
```

It's given the title "Warning" by default. It's not a great title, but no need to specify it. :slightly_smiling_face:

> Once you add or remove a user from a project or environment, you must trigger a redeploy to propagate SSH access changes to each environment. Redeploy using the CLI command `platform redeploy` or in the management console, click **Redeploy**.

Reviewer: This information is one of the bullet points above. I don't think it need to be in here twice.

{{< /note >}}

> ### Add users from the console

Reviewer: This should be an h2.

Also, given what we talked about with templates, I think this should be "Add a user" and then with tabs for each way you can add something (in console or in the CLI).

1. Go to your console and select the project where you want to change the user permissions.

> 2. Under **Settings**, click **Access** on the left-hand side of the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Under **Settings**, click **Access**.
```

The style we rely on [suggests](https://developers.google.com/style/ui-elements?hl=en) not using directional language (for localization and accessibility).

> Click **+Add**.

Reviewer: We should at some point discuss the use of icons in buttons. But maybe just for now with a space?
```suggestion
Click **+ Add**.
```

3. Add the user details and choose the permissions.

> 4. Click **Save**.

Reviewer: I'd add a sentence after the list with an expected outcome: about how they'll get an email inviting them to the project or to PSH in general.

> ### Manage users permissions with the CLI

Reviewer: I would put this back as h2.

Also, as above, I'd consider changing this to "Managing existing users" or something similar and having tabs for console and CLI.

> You can use the [Platform.sh CLI (Command Line Interface)](https://docs.platform.sh/development/cli.html) to fully manage your users and integrate with any automated system.

Reviewer: The way the link was there before was correct. This way hard codes it, which means it doesn't get checked for accuracy and also doesn't change based on the environment where it is deploy. I would revert this change.

---
title: "Users"
weight: 1
sidebarTitle: "User administration"
description: |

>   Every Platform.sh user has a role that controls their access and permission levels.

Reviewer: I'm not sure that this provides a complete description of this page without context. It should include the idea that this page shows readers how to manage the roles and maybe about adding and deleting them?

Author: What I mean is that you mention I took that part out but it is there, or perhaps you want to see the tabs in a different manner?
Are you referring to the structure itself? something like this?
## Managing users from the console
### Add a user to a project
### Delete a user from a project
## Managing users with the CLI

I'm happy to jump on a call and clarify.

Author: Ok thanks

---

{{< description >}}

> If you are an organization or a Project admin wanting to add a user to a project or an environment, the user has to create an account before they can contribute to the project.

Reviewer: "You" can be an org owner, but not an org. I think it's probably that org owners are automatically project admins, so I don't think both things are necessary.

Also, this comes before any introduction to the general topic, since that was removed from the description. So something there might help. Otherwise, it feels like a barrier is put in place before the end goal is even set, if that makes sense.

Author: Ok

## User roles

| User role    | Description |
| ------------ |-------------|

> |Project owner| There is only one and they can create multiple Project admins.  |

Reviewer: I would definitely recommend against standardizing as "Project admin". It may appear that way in the UI, but it should be either a proper noun (Project Admin) or a general one (project admin).

Author: Ok, In that case we might want to fix that in the product.

> |Project admin | Users who can configure project settings, manage other users,  administer environment permissions, push code, and execute actions on all project environments.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Project admin | Users who can configure project settings, manage other users, administer environment permissions, push code, and execute actions on all project environments. |
```

> ### Transfer a project ownership

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Transfer project ownership
```
Also, why is this a section within "user roles"? It seems to be a combination of reference with how to that might be confusing. A clearer goal from the start might help.

Author: Changed.

> As an organization owner, or as an organization user with the **manage plans** permission, you can transfer project ownership to a different organization, first invite that organization owner as a **Project admin** and then, submit a support ticket from your organization owner account to ask for the transfer. Transferring a project automatically transfers the upcoming subscription charges to the new owner. Once you transfer ownership, open a [support ticket](https://console.platform.sh/-/users/~/tickets) to request your account deletion.                                                                                                     

Reviewer: This is a set of steps that's mixed into once sentence. I would separate it out including a reason why you might want to and more clear steps. (It would help to use semantic line breaks, as we recommend)
I'd also note the requirements about having a payment method and such.

Also, you link to a support ticket in the second mention of it.

And is it necessarily the case that the original account needs to be deleted? That seems to be part of the use case that wasn't introduced and I'm not sure in necessarily would have to be.

> ## Environment types

Reviewer: I would start this section with a definition of what environment types are. That was the starting point of the issue -- clarifying what the types are and how they related to users. Instead, it starts with a synonym, where it's not defined as a synonym (groups), and a description of the names of the types. I'd start with the purpose, as I mentioned before: https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs/pull/1913#discussion_r719348774

Platform.sh offers three types of environment groups: Production, Staging, and

> Development. You can assign permissions to each user per environment so for each environment type, users always have the same set of permissions across all environments of the same type.

Reviewer: The sentence here seems to be two ideas at the "so", so maybe breaking it with punctuation or otherwise might help. It might help to shorted the last part of it as well.

Also, I don't think you can assign permissions "per environment". I believe it's possible for each type, which is why the types were introduced. 

And a small point but the line break here doesn't seem ideally semantic.

For example, if you assign user1 **Admin** permissions for Development environments,  

> **Contributor** permissions for Staging environments and **Viewer** for the Production environment. User1 effectively has **Admin** permissions to all development environments, **Contributor** permissions to all staging environments and **Viewer** permissions to the Production environment.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I fully understand the purpose of the second sentence. It seems like a longer way of saying the first sentence. Wouldn't it be enough to say something like "Any permissions you assign to an environment type apply to all environments of that type" and that could replace both sentences?

Also, the first sentence isn't a complete sentence (the second sentence is the result of the "if") and there should be a comma after the second item in the list ("Staging environments, and").

Author: I've added your suggestion and shortened the example.

A few things to consider:

> * Only one environment per project can have Production type.

Reviewer: I wouldn't generally describe things *having* a type. And I'd use a definite article for the type.

Also, I saw in the API docs that the Production type is set automatically as the default branch and can't be overridden separately. That seems like something worth mentioning.

![A screenshot of the error seen when trying to set another branch as production](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26428882/136055409-b0bab500-dca5-46f7-ab8f-2492538b67f4.png)

> * Environments can share the same Staging and Development type.

Reviewer: This seems to say that an environment can be of both types, which isn't true.

The idea that you can change the type of an environment seems useful as does the idea that you can have multiple Staging (or Development) environments. So including those ideas would help.

> * After you add or remove a user from a project or an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy to propagate SSH access changes to each environment. You can redeploy by using the CLI command platform `redeploy` or by clicking **Redeploy** in the management console.

Reviewer: Given that this applies to the project as a whole and not just the environment type, perhaps it belongs somewhere else? I could see this being confusing if I come here just to add or remove a user and so don't read this section.

Author: I've added it as a step in both tabs.

| Environment permission   | Description |
|------------------------- |-------------|

> |Viewer                    | Viewers can view all environments of this type. This role includes the Viewer permissions.|

Reviewer: The second sentence in the description belongs in the row below, not this one.

|Contributor               | Contributors can push code and branch all environments of this type

> |Admin                     | This role includes Viewer and Contributor permissions. Admins can change settings and execute actions on all environments of this type. To customize who can use SSH [set the access key](/configuration/app/access.html) in your platform.app.yaml|

Reviewer: The first sentence should be placed consistently with the sentence that should go in the previous row and also include "the" before "Viewer".

I think the last sentence was left in by mistake? Or I'm not sure what it's connected to.

Reviewer: I see now that the information about SSH access was removed and not placed anywhere else. I would put it somewhere and keep that last sentence with it. It's also from Contributor up, so it doesn't belong on Admin.

## Managing users

> ### Add a user from the console

Reviewer: As we agreed with the templates, this and the next section should be in tabs, not in separate sections.

1. Go to your console and select the project where you want to change the user permissions.
2. Under **Settings**, click **Access**.

> Click **+ Add** and add the user details and choose the permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **+ Add**
1. Add the user's details and choose their permissions.
```
It seemed to be putting three things into one -- a lot of "and"s. And it helps to start all lists with `1. ` so changing the order is easier later.

4. Click **Save**.

> Once you add the user to the project, they receive an invitation email to confirm their details and a registration link

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you add the user to the project, they receive an invitation email to confirm their details and a registration link.
```

Also, as I noted before, existing users don't get this. They just get an invitation to the project itself (not confirming the details or a registration link).

### Add a user with the CLI

> You can use the [Platform.sh CLI (Command Line Interface)](/development/cli/_index.md) to fully manage your users and integrate with any automated system.

Reviewer: I'm not sure about the connection of the part after "and" because it seems with the "and" like it's different than managing users, but is it?

Author: I suppose managing users and integrating with automated systems are two different things. Perhaps I should leave the and integrate with any automated system"out? I'm not saying that in order to integrate systems you don't have to deal with user management but I don't think that bit is relevant within this context.

Author: I took it out.

```

{{< /codetabs >}}

Once you delete a user, they can no longer access the project.
After you delete a user from a project or an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy to propagate SSH access changes to each environment.
You can redeploy by clicking **Redeploy** in the console or  using the CLI command `platform redeploy`.

### Change existing permissions for environment types

To change user permissions, follow these steps:

{{< codetabs >}}

---
title=In the console
file=none
highlight=false
---

1. In the console, select the project where you want to change the user permissions.
2. Under **Settings**, click **Access**.
3. Select a user and change the permissions.
4. Click **Save**.

<--->

---
title=Using the CLI
file=none
highlight=false
---
Say you want `user1@example.com` to have the Viewer role for Production environments
and the Contributor role for Development environments:

```bash
platform user:update user1@example.com -r production:v,development:c
```

After you change a user's role for an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy each environment to propagate access changes. You can redeploy using the CLI command `platform redeploy`.

{{< /codetabs >}}

> ### Transfer project ownership

Reviewer: Given the discussion above and the fact that this has as its first step inviting someone to the project, I don't think it falls within the section about managing existing users.

There's a good case to be made that it isn't about managing users at all, but about managing the organization, but I can see that it might make sense here, too.

But also, maybe make it clear that the first step doesn't require inviting a new user, just that the user has to be a Project Admin?

2. Under **Settings**, click **Access**.
3. Click **+ Add**
4. Add the user's details and choose their permissions.
5. Click **Save**.

{{< note theme="warning">}}

If you are an organization owner, or an organization user with [manage plan](/administration/organizations.md#organization-permissions) or [manage users](/administration/organizations.md#organization-permissions) permissions wanting to add a user to a project or an environment, the user has to create an account before they can contribute to the project.

{{< /note >}}

<--->
---
title=Using the CLI
file=none
highlight=false
---

You can use the [Platform.sh CLI (Command Line Interface)](/development/cli/_index.md) to create new users.

* `platform user:add`

Say you want to add `user1@example.com` to the project with **Project Admin** permissions:

```bash
platform user:add user1@example.com -r admin
```

{{< /codetabs >}}

Once you add a user to a project, they receive an email with instructions.
For SSH access changes to apply after you add a user to a project, you have to redeploy each environment by either clicking **Redeploy** in the console or running `platform redeploy`.

> ## Manage existing users

Reviewer: I would say I feel it should be changed for a few reasons:
* Managing users is a superset of managing existing users. Managing users includes both new and existing users, so putting those two things on the same level seems a little confusing. Otherwise, I'm not sure what else would fall under managing users (other than adding new users).
* Managing existing users exists on the same level as adding new users. That's what the initial confusion is for me -- they are two subsets of the same topic.
* With the overall structure of the article, it makes sense to me to have a section that's about the practical aspect of managing users. I think separating that from the reference sections above makes sense. That distinction becomes less clear when the section is split into multiple sections.

### Delete a user from a project

To delete a user from a project, follow these steps:

{{< codetabs >}}
---
title=In the console
file=none
highlight=false
---
1. In the console, select the project where you want to delete a user.
2. Under **Settings**, click **Access**.
3. Select the user you want to delete and click **Delete**.
4. Click **Save**.

<--->
---
title=Using the CLI
file=none
highlight=false
---

> Use the [Platform.sh CLI (Command Line Interface)](/development/cli/_index.md) to delete existing users.

Reviewer 2: I disagree 😅  The tab would be larger in this scenario, so we can go with saying "Using the CLI" and expand the acronym while opening the tab. I'd leave as is for the time being.

> `platform user:delete`

Reviewer: I think that this maybe shouldn't be here? It's just a part of the command that's below, so I'm not sure what it adds here.

  ```bash
  platform user:delete user1@example.com
  ```

>   After you delete a user from a project or an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy to propagate SSH access changes to each environment. You can redeploy by using the CLI command `platform redeploy`.

Reviewer: This should be in the expected outcome below.

{{< /codetabs >}}

> Once you delete a user, they can no longer access the project anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you delete a user, they can no longer access the project.
```

After you delete a user from a project or an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy to propagate SSH access changes to each environment.

> You can redeploy by clicking **Redeploy** in the console.

Reviewer: This should include both ways, as with adding a user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can redeploy by clicking **Redeploy** in the console or  using the CLI command `platform redeploy`.
```

### Change existing permissions for environment types

> To change the user permissions, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change user permissions, follow these steps:
```

{{< codetabs >}}
---
title=In the console
file=none
highlight=false
---

> 1. Go to your console and select the project where you want to change the user permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the console, select the project where you want to change the user permissions.
```

2. Under **Settings**, click **Access**.
3. Select a user and change the permissions.
4. Click **Save**.

<--->
---
title=Using the CLI
file=none
highlight=false
---

> Use the [Platform.sh CLI (Command Line Interface)](/development/cli/_index.md)to change user permissions.

Reviewer: As above

> `platform user:role`

Reviewer: I think that this maybe shouldn't be here? It's just a part of the command that's below, so I'm not sure what it adds here.

  ```bash

>   platform user:role user1@example.com -r contributor

Reviewer: This isn't the right command. For one, `user:role` doesn't exist anymore. And also, the role definition here is for without environment types.
Example to set Viewer for Production environments and Contributor for Development environments:

```bash
platform user:update user1@example.com -r production:v,development:c
```

  ```

> After you delete a user from a project or an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy to propagate SSH access changes to each environment. You can redeploy by using the CLI command `platform redeploy`.

Reviewer: Interesting that this doesn't happen automatically in the CLI, though it seems to in the console.
```suggestion
After you change a user's role for an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy each environment to propagate access changes. You can redeploy using the CLI command `platform redeploy`.
```

{{< /codetabs >}}

### Transfer project ownership

You can transfer your plan ownership to a different [organization](/administration/organizations.md) anytime.
You have to be the organization owner or an organization user with the **manage plans** permission.

> 1. Invite the new organization owner as a **Project Admin**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Invite the new organization owner as a Project Admin.
```

2. Submit a [support ticket](https://console.platform.sh/-/users/~/tickets) from your organization owner's account to ask for the transfer.

Once the transfer is completed, the new organization can administer all project settings, billing, and gets the subscription charges.

## Troubleshooting

> If you have setup an external integration to GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket, and your users can't clone the project locally, select [Source Integrations](integrations/source/troubleshooting.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have setup an external integration to GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket, and your users can't clone the project locally, see how to [troubleshoot source integrations](integrations/source/troubleshooting.md).
```

Although the first clause might assume the user knows enough to fix the problem (like we were discussing with the FAQ). But it might be OK.

This allows you to set permissions for multiple environments at once based on their purpose.

Platform.sh offers three environment types: Production, Staging, and Development.
You can assign user permissions for each environment type.
Any permissions you assign to an environment type apply to all environments of that type.

For example, if you assign User1 **Admin** permissions for Development environments,
User1 has **Admin** permissions for all environments of that type.

A few things to consider:

* Only one environment per project can be the Production type. It's set automatically as the default branch and can't be overridden separately.
* You can change an environment's type (if it's not Production).
* You can have multiple Staging and Development environments.

The following table shows the available roles for environment types.

| Role | View environment | Push code | Branch environment | SSH access | Change settings | Execute actions |
| ---- | ---------------- | --------- | ------------------ | ---------- | --------------- | --------------- |

> | Environment Type Viewer

Reviewer: I thought the idea was to standardize names with what's in the UI. the "Environment Type" part isn't, so it seems somewhat confusing. I think it's an overly long name for the role.
Also the ones below

| Environment Type Contributor
 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | No | No |
| Environment Type Admin
 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |

To customize who can use SSH, [set the access key](/configuration/app/access.md) in your `platform.app.yaml` file.

## Manage users

### Add a user to a project

If you are an organization owner, or an organization user with [manage plan](/administration/organizations.md#organization-permissions) or [manage users](/administration/organizations.md#organization-permissions) permissions wanting to add a user to a project or an environment, follow these steps:

{{< codetabs >}}
---
title=In the console
file=none
highlight=false
---

1. In the console, select the project where you want to add a new user.
2. Under **Settings**, click **Access**.
3. Click **+ Add**
4. Add the user's details and choose their permissions.
5. Click **Save**.

<--->
---
title=Using the CLI
file=none
highlight=false
---

> 
> * `platform user:add`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

To be more explicit about my suggestion from before.

> <<<<<<< Updated upstream
> Say you want to add `user1@example.com` to the project with a Project Admin role:
> =======
> Say you want to add `user1@example.com` to the project with a **Project Admin** roles:
> >>>>>>> Stashed changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Say you want to add `user1@example.com` to the project with a Project Admin role:
```
This was a merge conflict that wasn't resolved.

Say you want to add `user1@example.com` to the project with a **Project Admin** roles:
>>>>>>> Stashed changes

```bash
platform user:add user1@example.com -r admin
```

{{< /codetabs >}}

The user has to create an account before they can contribute to the project.
Once you add a user to a project, they receive an email with instructions.
For SSH access changes to apply after you add a user to a project, you have to redeploy each environment by either clicking **Redeploy** in the console or running `platform redeploy`.

## Manage existing users

### Delete a user from a project

To delete a user from a project, follow these steps:

{{< codetabs >}}
---
title=In the console
file=none
highlight=false
---
1. In the console, select the project where you want to delete a user.
2. Under **Settings**, click **Access**.
3. Select the user you want to delete and click **Delete**.
4. Click **Save**.

<--->
---
title=Using the CLI
file=none
highlight=false
---
Use the [Platform.sh CLI (Command Line Interface)](/development/cli/_index.md) to delete existing users.

  ```bash
  platform user:delete user1@example.com

>   ```

Reviewer: This shouldn't be indented

  ```

{{< /codetabs >}}

Once you delete a user, they can no longer access the project.
After you delete a user from a project or an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy to propagate SSH access changes to each environment.
You can redeploy by clicking **Redeploy** in the console or  using the CLI command `platform redeploy`.

### Change existing permissions for environment types

To change user permissions, follow these steps:

{{< codetabs >}}

---
title=In the console
file=none
highlight=false
---

1. In the console, select the project where you want to change the user permissions.
2. Under **Settings**, click **Access**.
3. Select a user and change the permissions.
4. Click **Save**.

<--->

---
title=Using the CLI
file=none
highlight=false
---

Use the [Platform.sh CLI (Command Line Interface)](/development/cli/_index.md)to change user permissions.

```bash

> platform user:update user1@example.com -r production:v,development:c

Reviewer: What about an introduction? As I said before:
>I think the command isn't immediately obvious, so like the example with adding a user via the CLI, it would help to have an introductory sentence explaining what you're trying to do.

Something like this:, "
```suggestion
Say you want `user1@example.com` to have the Viewer role for Production environments
and the Contributor role for Development environments:

```bash
platform user:update user1@example.com -r production:v,development:c
```
(I can't get the exact lines to match because of the deleted one.)

```

After you change a user's role for an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy each environment to propagate access changes. You can redeploy using the CLI command `platform redeploy`.

{{< /codetabs >}}

### Transfer project ownership

You can transfer your plan ownership to a different [organization](/administration/organizations.md) anytime.
You have to be the organization owner, or an organization user with [manage plan](/administration/organizations.md#organization-permissions) or [manage users](/administration/organizations.md#organization-permissions) permissions.

1. Invite the new organization owner as a Project Admin.
2. Submit a [support ticket](https://console.platform.sh/-/users/~/tickets) from your organization owner's account to ask for the transfer.

Once the transfer is completed, the new organization can administer all project settings and billing and receives future invoices.

## Troubleshooting

> If you have setup an external integration to GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket and your users can't clone the project locally, see how to [troubleshoot source integrations](integrations/source/troubleshooting.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have setup an external integration to GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket and your users can't clone the project locally, see how to [troubleshoot source integrations](/integrations/source/troubleshooting.md).
```

Reviewer: Also, this will require merging `master` into this branch to pass the check.

```bash
platform user:add user1@example.com -r admin
```

{{< /codetabs >}}

Once you add a user to a project, they receive an email with instructions.
For SSH access changes to apply after you add a user to a project, you have to redeploy each environment by either clicking **Redeploy** in the console or running `platform redeploy`.

## Manage existing users

### Delete a user from a project

To delete a user from a project, follow these steps:

{{< codetabs >}}
---
title=In the console
file=none
highlight=false
---
1. In the console, select the project where you want to delete a user.
2. Under **Settings**, click **Access**.
3. Select the user you want to delete and click **Delete**.
4. Click **Save**.

<--->
---
title=Using the CLI
file=none
highlight=false
---
Use the [Platform.sh CLI (Command Line Interface)](/development/cli/_index.md) to delete existing users.

`platform user:delete`

  ```bash
  platform user:delete user1@example.com
  ```

  After you delete a user from a project or an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy to propagate SSH access changes to each environment. You can redeploy by using the CLI command `platform redeploy`.

{{< /codetabs >}}

> Once you delete a user, they can no longer access the project.

Reviewer 2: NVM, it's already outside tabs, the comment above confused me 😅

After you delete a user from a project or an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy to propagate SSH access changes to each environment.
You can redeploy by clicking **Redeploy** in the console.

### Change existing permissions for environment types

To change the user permissions, follow these steps:

{{< codetabs >}}
---
title=In the console
file=none
highlight=false
---
1. Go to your console and select the project where you want to change the user permissions.
2. Under **Settings**, click **Access**.
3. Select a user and change the permissions.
4. Click **Save**.

<--->
---
title=Using the CLI
file=none
highlight=false
---
Use the [Platform.sh CLI (Command Line Interface)](/development/cli/_index.md)to change user permissions.

`platform user:update`

  ```bash

>   platform user:update user1@example.com -r production:v,development:c

Reviewer: Also, the whole code block should be without indentation.

  ```

After you change a user's role for an environment type, you must trigger a redeploy each environment to propagate access changes. You can redeploy using the CLI command `platform redeploy`.

{{< /codetabs >}}

### Transfer project ownership

You can transfer your plan ownership to a different [organization](/administration/organizations.md) anytime.
You have to be the organization owner, or an organization user with [manage plan](/administration/organizations.md#organization-permissions) or [manage users](/administration/organizations.md#organization-permissions) permissions.

> 1. Invite the new organization owner as a **Project Admin**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Invite the new organization owner as a Project Admin.
```

This seems like a role, which wouldn't require bold.

2. Submit a [support ticket](https://console.platform.sh/-/users/~/tickets) from your organization owner's account to ask for the transfer.

> Once the transfer is completed, the new organization can administer all project settings, billing, and gets the subscription charges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the transfer is completed, the new organization can administer all project settings and billing and receives future invoices.
```

Or I'm not sure what "subscription charges" are. I see invoices in my org, but I don't know if it's different for other tiers.  But "gets ... charges" seems confusing to me.

## Troubleshooting

> If you have setup an external integration to GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket, and your users can't clone the project locally, see how to [troubleshoot source integrations](integrations/source/troubleshooting.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have setup an external integration to GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket and your users can't clone the project locally, see how to [troubleshoot source integrations](integrations/source/troubleshooting.md).
```

* `platform user:role`
  * View or change a user's role

>  **Example**

Reviewer: I wouldn't add this as it doesn't seem to add semantic value.

>  Add `user1@example.com` to the project with Project Admin permissions:

Reviewer: This is the same task as above, so I'd just move it there (with the tabs, as noted above).

```bash
platform user:add user1@example.com -r admin
```

> Once you add the user to the project, they receive an invitation email to confirm their details and a registration link.

Reviewer: This is what I meant above about the outcome. So just needs to be moved there. Also, it's not true for people who are already Platform users -- they just get an invitation to the project.

> **Example**

Reviewer: As above.

> To give User2 different levels of access depending on the environment type in the current project:

Reviewer: I'd reword this to make the list that comes after more clear. Something like "Say you wanted to give User2 the following roles in different environment types:"

-  **Viewer** role to the **Production environment**

> -  **Contributor** role to **all Staging type environments**

Reviewer: I don't think the word "type" is so necessary here, especially if it's going to be capitalized. Also, I'd use "in" rather than "to".

-  **Admin** role to **all Development type environments**

You would run:

```bash
platform user:role user2@example.com -r production:viewer -r staging:contributor -r development:admin
```

> Use `platform list` to get the full list of commands.

Reviewer: I think this is unnecessary (it's true anytime the CLI is run, so I wouldn't repeat it).

I would put in an expected outcome -- does the user get an email this time?

```bash
$ git clone git@github.com:user/github-repo.git Project Name
```

both would error with

```bash
Failed to connect to the Git repository: git@github.com:user/github-repo.git

Please make sure you have the correct access rights and the repository exists.
```

despite their **Project Admin** access to the project.

This enhaces consistency over your source code, as the Platform.sh project functions as a read-only mirror of your remote repository. Otherwise, changes pushed directly to the project would be overwritten or deleted when commits are pushed via the integration. Platform.sh considers your integrated remote repository to be the "source of truth" as soon as it has been configured, and this caveat ensures that all commits go through the integration.

The best course of action is to have your access updated on the integrated repository. If for some reason that is not a quick change, you can still clone through the project using the legacy pattern (which will set the *project* as its remote), but again, it is not recommended that you commit to the project once you have done so:

```bash
$ git clone <project>@git.<region>.platform.sh:<project>.git

> ```

Reviewer: This information no longer exists anywhere. If you're planning on adding it, I'd add a cross link here to that information.

Author: I've got a question here: To me this piece of troubleshooting isn't really a part of this text and since it's new location is contextualized I wonder whether it is necessary to add a link from this page.

Reviewer: Is there a reason you think it's not connected to this idea? If I were wondering why my user couldn't access something, I would look at a page called "User administration" and expect to find at least a link to the answer. But maybe that's just me :shrug:

Author: Ok

* `platform user:role`
  * View or change a user's role

 Add `user1@example.com` to the project with Project Admin permissions:

```bash
platform user:add user1@example.com -r admin
```
Once you add the user to the project, they receive an invitation email to confirm their details and a registration link.

Say you wanted to give User2 the following roles in different environment types:

-  **Viewer** role in the **Production environment**
-  **Contributor** role in **all staging environments**

> -  **Admin** role in **all development environments**

Reviewer: Should this still be here? I'm confused by it since it's not connected to an action to take.
